In the previous video I mentioned that we will going to cover the bulk sizing and we're going gonna
make it actually with an example because like always and I know I keep repeating this but it makes much
more sense if we're looking actually at the example now what we would like to do here I guess again
for the whole CEO.
I'm just gonna delete this.
We're also gonna go to the next page CML I'm going to say we're not going to need these on our list
but instead we're going to create a device.
In fact there's going to be three days or the day of let's say first box.
No one is going to be in class and let's write here with a hearing one simple text.
I am with I am with border box water box.
Then the next one.
Let me just copy and paste it and let's copy and paste it two times.
So the second day is out.
They're going to be with box of number two and the third one is gonna be with a box of three.
And again we'll just use this for styling here.
Let's just say I'm normal I am normal.
And then for the third one let's write I am without water box and we're gonna say it.
Okay.
So we have three divs within the three layers we have heading once again the most work is gonna be in
style C is this.
And let's start styling first and foremost let's select marks on what's in the right box number one.
Now since I would like to have multiple styles for each and every box let me repeat maybe when we can
group the elements let's just say box number two and we're gonna write a dot again box number two as
well as comma and box number three and just keep forgetting the dots.
But I think it's gonna be okay.
Now what I would want for all the classes because again that was the whole point of this grouping.
So I'm going to say two hundred pixels is gonna be my worth.
Then we're also gonna do I don't know height of the same of 200 pixels.
Excellent.
We have the width and we have the height.
Now what.
No maybe.
Let's add some colors but for the colors and they are gonna be separate on one to actually select the
actual boxes on their own marks no one is gonna have the background of let's say red then we're also
gonna add a little bit of coloring we white so that's gonna be this style and you know what.
In this case we can just copy paste it because there's no point of rewriting everything so we can say
that I would like to select whatever D lines and we're gonna copy and paste it two times then let's
write different values so this would be Box Number two there's gonna be box number three and you know
what actually changed my mind why don't we do this one hundred pixels because you'll see actually now
you can undo it.
My apologies I need to go two hundred pixels because I have everyone please disregard whatever I just
did and back to the colors now for the second one will going to add maybe I don't know blue color and
text it's not gonna be white.
So here we can also do the green now as we're looking at it first of all you can see that I messed up
I could have used the color right here I could have said color and white and let me just spend 30 seconds
to delete these guys so again we'll select them with multiple selectors and we'll just gonna delete
them since all the colors are gonna be exactly the same.
Now comes the most interesting part of where we're starting to work with the border box so why were
using that property and why we're using the actual property as well as the value so why we're using
the box sizing property with the value of the more box now in order to demonstrate this why don't we
add some padding now for the box number one which was gonna be watermarks and then for the box number
three so leave the middle one the box number two just the way it is.
So here I'm gonna say like this I'm going to say that I would like some padding and I'm gonna add padding
all around I'm gonna say twenty pixels now OK so I am really noticing that my box is getting bigger
OK let's do the same thing here let's say for the third box is also going to be the same thing and again
we're getting the bigger padding on the left hand side as well as we can see that it's happening on
top of bottom.
Now if we really want to actually check this out we can head over to the bigger browser window or you
can do it in a small side browser window it's really up to you and then we can again refresh how we
can go to Google Developer Tools and if I'm going to click on inspect I'm gonna open up the doors I'm
gonna right away zoom in so we can see better and that was a little bit drastic I didn't need to go
that far but we can stay something I cannot pick the right angle let's say head within the head I'm
not interested in anything I don't know why open hand actually needed body let me open up the body now
within the body I have my boxes what do you see here on the box now if you can clearly see on the top.
I have 240 by 240.
However on my right hand side it says 200 by 200.
Again let me heard a hover over back and as I'm hovering over the elements you can see that there has
been added some weight and some height because we just had at the padding because I said padding is
going to be left and right and top and bottom.
So what happens is even though originally it was 200 by 200.
Now in fact this is 240 by 240 because we added the padding okay.
Don't believe me.
Let's go over to box number three again.
Same deal.
So even though I'm having here right now there's two hundred two hundred.
What's happening is on the page right now as I'm looking at it again this is 240 by 240 and we can also
see this over here.
So I have 200 by 200 but then my pairings are being added on the left hand side and right hand side.
It's obviously different.
It's the opposite the left hand side in the right hand side as well as top and bottom.
Now why this matters.
Well has you're going to be working with CSX as you're going to be working with your layout.
This is really going to mess you up especially if you try to position something somewhere and you just
add a padding.
And this is totally going to mess up your layout your view and probably most importantly your mood especially
in the beginning.
So what do we do about that.
Well let me head over to the box number one over here and let's have the property that we just learned
which was box sizing property and for the box sizing we would like to add Border box.
Now what is border bugs do.
Well what happens with border box border box is right now and we can actually click on box number one
and now check this out.
Now this is probably going to be clear.
But even though you can still see it here at least I can see it down my window I can see that this is
still 200 by 200.
But I guess this is going to be a little bit better.
We notice what happens now the padding is added on inside so the content is actually 160 which again
might mess you up your content but then but at least it's not going to mess up your whole layout.
Now is it the same thing with the third one.
Well no.
This is still without a border box value.
So what's happening is this is the reason why we're using the border box and that's the reason why in
the beginning remember when we had that universal selector when we said that we would want to select
everything and that was the Asterix.
Then we're adding margin is going to be zero.
The default margins should be gone.
Then also the padding should be gone.
So we can always add their own padding and that's why we added.
Here is box sizing with a value of the border box.
So that's why we said here mortar box.
So no all of them are exactly the same.
The only difference right now with a one in three is the fact that the padding has been added on the
inside.
But the key is that if you're adding this property it will not gonna mess up your whole layout.
If you're adding padding to a element because padding is gonna be applied inside of the element not
the outside making the element bigger.